\chapter{Objectives}\label{chapter:objectives}

The primary objective of this thesis is to explore GPU scheduling techniques that enable predictable, low-latency execution for real-time autonomous driving systems. In particular, the aim is to address the limitations of current GPU execution models, which prioritize throughput at the expense of timing guarantees, by investigating alternative scheduling strategies suitable for safety-critical environments.

The initial direction of this work was to integrate a coroutine-based GPU scheduler into a production-scale autonomous driving framework. This integration was intended to evaluate the viability of fine-grained GPU scheduling within a realistic, complex system and to examine how such techniques could enhance the responsiveness and safety of autonomous vehicles. However, the integration process revealed significant challenges, including tight coupling between system components, undocumented internal behavior, and limited support for external extensions. As a result, this original objective was reconsidered.

The thesis therefore shifted focus to a more foundational and controlled approach. Instead of embedding GPU scheduling into an existing system, the work centers on designing and implementing a custom persistent thread scheduler using native CUDA. This scheduler serves as a minimal proof-of-concept for enabling long-lived GPU threads to receive tasks, yield between them, and emulate prioritization. By building this system from scratch, it becomes possible to explore how real-time behaviors can be emulated in software, to study the limitations of the CUDA execution model, and to understand the design trade-offs involved in managing GPU concurrency manually.

This revised objective emphasizes both the practical and conceptual aspects of real-time GPU scheduling. Practically, it provides a working framework for testing scheduling behavior under load. Conceptually, it offers insights into the relationship between scheduling granularity, task responsiveness, and hardware constraints. The findings of this work aim to inform future efforts to integrate persistent-thread or coroutine-based scheduling into real-world autonomous driving systems.

